docs/content/Configuration/Databases/AWS-Redshift.mdx, before:

---
title: AWS Redshift
permalink: /config/databases/aws-redshift
---

## Prerequisites

<InfoBox>

If the cluster is configured within a [VPC][aws-vpc], then Cube.js **must** have
a network route to the cluster.

</InfoBox>

- The [hostname][aws-redshift-docs-connection-string] for the [AWS
  Redshift][aws-redshift] cluster
- The [username/password][aws-redshift-docs-users] for the [AWS
  Redshift][aws-redshift] cluster
- The name of the database to use within the [AWS Redshift][aws-redshift]
  cluster

## Setup

### <--{"id" : "Setup"}--> Manual

Add the following to a `.env` file in your Cube.js project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=redshift
CUBEJS_DB_HOST=my-redshift-cluster.cfbs3dkw1io8.eu-west-1.redshift.amazonaws.com
CUBEJS_DB_NAME=my_redshift_database
CUBEJS_DB_USER=redshift_user
CUBEJS_DB_PASS=**********
```

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable | Description                                                             | Possible Values           | Required |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_HOST`     | The host URL for a database                                             | A valid database host URL |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PORT`     | The port for the database connection                                    | A valid port number       |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_NAME`     | The name of the database to connect to                                  | A valid database name     |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_USER`     | The username used to connect to the database                            | A valid database username |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PASS`     | The password used to connect to the database                            | A valid database password |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_SSL`      | If `true`, enables SSL encryption for database connections from Cube.js | `true`, `false`           |    ❌    |

## SSL

To enable SSL-encrypted connections between Cube.js and AWS Redshift, set the
`CUBEJS_DB_SSL` environment variable to `true`. For more information on how to
configure custom certificates, please check out [Enable SSL Connections to the
Database][ref-recipe-enable-ssl].

## Export bucket

### <--{"id" : "Export bucket"}--> AWS S3

<WarningBox>

AWS Redshift **only** supports using AWS S3 for export buckets.

</WarningBox>

For [improved pre-aggregation performance with large
datasets][ref-caching-large-preaggs], enable export bucket functionality by
configuring Cube.js with the following environment variables:

<InfoBox>

Ensure the AWS credentials are correctly configured in IAM to allow reads and
writes to the export bucket in S3.

</InfoBox>

```dotenv
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_TYPE=s3
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET=my.bucket.on.s3
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AWS_KEY=<AWS_KEY>
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AWS_SECRET=<AWS_SECRET>
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AWS_REGION=<AWS_REGION>
```

[aws-redshift-docs-connection-string]:
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/configuring-connections.html#connecting-drivers
[aws-redshift-docs-users]:
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_Users.html
[aws-redshift]: https://aws.amazon.com/redshift/
[aws-vpc]: https://aws.amazon.com/vpc/
[ref-caching-large-preaggs]: /using-pre-aggregations#large-pre-aggregations
[ref-recipe-enable-ssl]: /recipes/enable-ssl-connections-to-database

Commit message:

docs(config): add Pre-Aggregations section to each database page

docs/content/Configuration/Databases/AWS-Redshift.mdx, after:

---
title: AWS Redshift
permalink: /config/databases/aws-redshift
---

## Prerequisites

<InfoBox>

If the cluster is configured within a [VPC][aws-vpc], then Cube.js **must** have
a network route to the cluster.

</InfoBox>

- The [hostname][aws-redshift-docs-connection-string] for the [AWS
  Redshift][aws-redshift] cluster
- The [username/password][aws-redshift-docs-users] for the [AWS
  Redshift][aws-redshift] cluster
- The name of the database to use within the [AWS Redshift][aws-redshift]
  cluster

## Setup

### <--{"id" : "Setup"}--> Manual

Add the following to a `.env` file in your Cube.js project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=redshift
CUBEJS_DB_HOST=my-redshift-cluster.cfbs3dkw1io8.eu-west-1.redshift.amazonaws.com
CUBEJS_DB_NAME=my_redshift_database
CUBEJS_DB_USER=redshift_user
CUBEJS_DB_PASS=**********
```

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable | Description                                                             | Possible Values           | Required |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_HOST`     | The host URL for a database                                             | A valid database host URL |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PORT`     | The port for the database connection                                    | A valid port number       |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_NAME`     | The name of the database to connect to                                  | A valid database name     |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_USER`     | The username used to connect to the database                            | A valid database username |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PASS`     | The password used to connect to the database                            | A valid database password |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_SSL`      | If `true`, enables SSL encryption for database connections from Cube.js | `true`, `false`           |    ❌    |

## Pre-Aggregations

| Feature       | Works with read-only mode? | Is default? |
| ------------- | :------------------------: | :---------: |
| Batching      |             ❌             |     ✅      |
| Export Bucket |             ❌             |     ❌      |

By default, AWS Redshift uses [batching][self-preaggs-batching] to build
pre-aggregations.

### Batching

No extra configuration is required to configure batching for AWS Redshift.

### Export bucket

<WarningBox>

AWS Redshift **only** supports using AWS S3 for export buckets.

</WarningBox>

#### AWS S3

For [improved pre-aggregation performance with large
datasets][ref-caching-large-preaggs], enable export bucket functionality by
configuring Cube.js with the following environment variables:

<InfoBox>

Ensure the AWS credentials are correctly configured in IAM to allow reads and
writes to the export bucket in S3.

</InfoBox>

```dotenv
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_TYPE=s3
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET=my.bucket.on.s3
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AWS_KEY=<AWS_KEY>
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AWS_SECRET=<AWS_SECRET>
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AWS_REGION=<AWS_REGION>
```

## SSL

To enable SSL-encrypted connections between Cube.js and AWS Redshift, set the
`CUBEJS_DB_SSL` environment variable to `true`. For more information on how to
configure custom certificates, please check out [Enable SSL Connections to the
Database][ref-recipe-enable-ssl].

[aws-redshift-docs-connection-string]:
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/configuring-connections.html#connecting-drivers
[aws-redshift-docs-users]:
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_Users.html
[aws-redshift]: https://aws.amazon.com/redshift/
[aws-vpc]: https://aws.amazon.com/vpc/
[ref-caching-large-preaggs]: /using-pre-aggregations#large-pre-aggregations
[ref-recipe-enable-ssl]: /recipes/enable-ssl-connections-to-database
[self-preaggs-batching]: #batching
